---
layout: post
title:      "'Thinking in the Future'"
date:       2018-04-02 16:37:40 -0400
permalink:  enter_your_title_here
---


My journey to beginning this program has been both rewarding and unconventional. I always thought that coding and computer programming in general was an arena only reserved for those who were quntitatively gifted, and I, as a humanities teacher, was not only in the same realm, but not even in the same universe. I had always felt rather insecure about my career as a teacher. You know the phrase, "those who do, do, and those who can't, teach". Society's views on educators, and even my own, weren't the only reservations I had. My peers in the academia saw my exit to educator as a signal of a lack of intellectual commitment and ability. 

Regardless of these reservations, I did become an educator, and achieved high levels of success. As the classroom years went by, I became less concerned with student understanding of content, and began to realize a more pernicious consequence to lack of cultural capital or academic knowledge. Many of my students struggled with recognizing the importance of historical events, and finding joy in literary devices. I realized that my students lacked the fundemental skill of literacy. Literacy, being a skill, rather than knowledge, would go on to enrich their lives much more than content could. Literacy is a skill that can be manipulated and bent to serve any purpose the mind finds for it. I began thinking about how language forms our thinking, and how thinking could not be taught. "Thinking can't be taught!", I would exclaim at my supervisors, when they would ask why certain students could not achieve proficiency on state exams. I began playing around with how to help my students use skills to unlock certain ideas and to create ones of their own. 

This realization seems obvious, but is very hard to understand and implement in the field. Especially with mounting work, student behavior, and expectations of inexperienced supervisors. Once I started implementing skill acquision, over content, I saw a drastic increase in student intellectual ability and engagement. However, despite my students' high test scores, I felt unfulfilled. I had found the way to succeed, but I felt unchallenged and unmotivated to work for supervisors who did not find the same joy in watching my students learn, yet reaped all its financial benefits. In reflection, I grew to understand that literacy was taking on a new form. It is no longer enough to be able to think, or be literate, in our status quo. Technology has brought us to a different way of thinking, and consequently, being literate. In order to unlock ideas and create new ones, in this new society, one has to be literate in the way our technologies opperate and govern life, in order to generate ideas and add value to society. 
